Now, our text today really brings to our attention the close attention and affection that our
God Jehovah has for each of us, and especially when we're living under extreme or stressful
times.
And this has really brought home to us the fact that under inspiration the Apostle Paul
was moved to write to the Ephesian congregation of these beautiful words of our text today.
And why?
Because that congregation was under an extreme amount of pressure from the world around them.
The city of Ephesus was very materialistic.
It was wealthy and it was just steeped in spiritism and demonism.
The culture was based upon the religion of false gods such as Artemis.
In fact, they boasted that the great temple of Artemis was in Ephesus, which is considered
to be one of the seven wonders of the ancient world.
And so Ephesus was a tourist destination, and many made their wealth and money from
selling religious articles such as idols to those that would come there to worship.
This type of worship fostered immorality and crime.
Since within that temple arrangement no one could be charged with any kind of crime.
And of course it fostered immoral thinking and activities.
So anytime our brothers went out to work, school, they were faced or dealing with this intense
pressure from a culture that was in sharp contrast to doing God's will.
They stood to danger of violating or having their Christian integrity compromised.
When now this all sounds very familiar to us because we are living deep in the time of
the end.
In fact, the world is in an Ephesus-like condition, in fact even worse, because the devil
has come down to the earth having great anger.
And he wants to destroy us all, especially we who are God's people.
So therefore we need to pay very close attention to the counsel, the loving counsel that
Jehovah gave to the Ephesians, and he preserved them for our day because we need to pay close
attention to what Jehovah told the Ephesians to preserve them alive during that time.
Here's their spiritual life and how important it is for us today.
Now in reviewing this counsel, if you may want to open your Bibles to Ephesians chapter
6, we definitely get the impression or the feel that this is a loving heavenly Father,
talking to his children.
Notice right away in verse 11, what Jehovah tells all of us to do, he says to put on the
complete suit of armor from God so that you may be able to stand firm against the crafty
acts of the devil.
Now what does this sound like to you?
For me it reminds me of a parent talking to a child before he goes out and when the
weather is bad and he says put on your coat, in fact he helps him put on his coat, puts
a hat on his child and makes sure his gloves are on and puts his boots on.
And all the time talking, we want you to stay warm and safe and dry because I don't want
you to get sick, I want you to be safe and healthy.
And I can remember with my own mom when she would dress me up before I went out the door,
she would always slip some change in my pocket and I was back in the days of payphones.
And she says, you know, anytime you feel your stuck or you're in trouble, you give me
a call.
I'm just a phone call away.
When many ways Jehovah is like this loving parent, he dresses this up to face the
spiritual battles of our day.
But he goes even further to show his personal concern and this is where our text for today
comes in.
In verse 18, it says, with every form of prayer and supplication you carry on prayer on
every occasion in spirit.
Yes, the days are very wicked.
And Jehovah knows that there is things that we're going to be faced with that we need
to talk to him about, but it's not just the things that are of great serious concern.
Now, there are things that all things in life, he wants us to talk to him about.
And why is that?
It's interesting what the insight volume has to say, insight volume two under the subject
of prayer, talking about our personal prayers to Jehovah.
He made this comment, it says, personal prayers may embrace virtually every facet of life.
But for our prayers to be heard, we must be wholly on God's side of the issue involving
Jehovah's sovereignty.
Now this isn't keeping with the spirit of the model prayer that Jesus taught us to pray.
Embodied in that prayer was all things that are important to a Christian's life.
And what is the foremost importance to us?
It's the sanctification of God's name, and that God's will be done by means of His kingdom.
As dedicated servants of Jehovah God, this is what our life is all about.
Our daily life is involved this matter of Jehovah's name and the kingdom.
It's tied up in our Christian integrity of upholding Jehovah's name and the kingdom
interests.
And that's why Jehovah says, pray on every occasion.
And what he's telling us is that everything in your life involves me.
I gave my son for you.
I want to hear what's going on in your life.
I want to be a part of your life.
You are important to me.
You're my fellow worker.
You're helping me accomplish my will and purpose.
Therefore, we should never hold back from praying to Jehovah even about me, even minor
things that may come up.
And why?
Because communication is a lifeblood of a strong relationship, especially with Jehovah
God.
Again, we go back to the illustration of children, you know, a child will sit there and
just talk and talk and talk and talk.
All about all kinds of things, maybe even seemingly insignificant things, but a parent
listens to them with a smile on their face.
They're overjoyed because they're hearing what the child thinks, what's on his heart.
But it also is an opportunity to establish good lines of communication with that child
and establish a loving bond with him.
To hear his innermost thoughts.
Does Jehovah hear our innermost thoughts?
To hear times of joy.
Why we're so happy?
Expressing gratitude for a beautiful day, a starry night, a shooting star, beavers on
the lake.
Such prayers are not just chatter to Jehovah God, but it's what endears us to him.
This establishes a strong line of communication with Jehovah God that we need during these
critical last days.
Jesus says that every day we have anxieties and problems.
We have to deal with our own imperfect flesh that can cause us great distress among other
things.
But notice what the sons of Coruscant and the book of the Psalms, 46 verse 1, under inspiration.
Notice how they felt about Jehovah says, God is our refuge and strength, a help that
is readily found in times of distress.
Times of distress we need to go to Jehovah God.
And if we've been talking to him about every little thing in our life, well, that line
of communication is immediate.
We go to him without hesitation, reveal to him what is causing us pain in our hearts,
our innermost thoughts, dealing with our imperfections in sinful nature.
Now, this is where the Disciple James, in under inspiration, James 4.8, he tells us, during
these times, is draw close to God and he will draw close to you.
Cleanse your hands, you sinners.
We think we go back to the stress of our brothers in Ephesus.
They walked out the door and perhaps maybe they heard something.
He saw something that brought back to their minds, an improper thought or a feeling that
they thought they had licked, that they thought they had gotten control of.
And there it is, rearing as ugly head.
They went to Jehovah in prayer, talked to him about that.
Does the same thing happen to us?
Of course it does.
We're imperfect.
Our hearts are always leaning towards what is bad.
And so we need to lean on Jehovah God to pray to him to let him know how we feel.
Express our thoughts so that we can bring every thought into captivity and make it obedient
to the Christ.
See, prayer can make that happen.
Jehovah can help us to remove those thoughts and bring them under the control so that they
do not affect our peace and our joy in our heart.
Jehovah truly is our loving Father and he's greatly concerned for each and every one of
us.
And he wants to help us.
He wants to be part of our life so that we can be successful in fighting the fine fight
for the faith and maintaining our integrity to him each and every day.
Therefore, let this day be another day in which our precious relationship with Jehovah God
is strengthened because we have gone to him on every occasion in prayer.